---
description: Read about the minor cheqd network upgrade, moving to version 3.1.5
---

# 3.1.5

﻿﻿**Version 3.1.5** brought an increase in gas prices, improvements to our DID Document logic and general patches and fixes for upstream Cosmos changes. Here's what we changed:

## :fuelpump: **Gas Price increase**

* Increase gas price by roughly 100x.
* Bumps minimum gas price to 5000ncheq.
* This will be implemented for all transactions, payments, voting, commission, rewards on cheqd (except for identity transactions). This will also increase the amount of $CHEQ burnt per transaction in accordance with the v3.x changes to fee market and EIP-1559 style burn. This has [previously been discussed on our forum](https://forum.cheqd.io/discussion/25418-cheq-updated-tokenomics-discussion-eip1559-burn-updated-identity-pricing).
* Identity price changes will be included in another parameter change proposal.

## ﻿﻿ :id: **Minor Identity changes**

* In preparation for Dock migrating all of their DIDs to cheqd mainnet, we are making some minor changes to how our ledger handles identity key validation, to allow for Dock to use cheqd DID Documents to embed keys for specific BBS+ signature types. This will also allow for other innovations, such as potentially storing X.509 certificate keys (or other data such as metadata) within verification relationships in cheqd DID Documents.
* Loosening of the `verificationMethod` validation logic to support other key types in verification relationships that do not necessarily need to be validated against the ledger.
* Adding the ability for arbitrary data, e.g. metadata to be added within the assertionMethod section of a cheqd DID Document.

## ﻿﻿ :satellite\_orbital: **Minor Cosmos SDK update**

* Upstream security updates of Cosmos SDK packages.

## 🌟 **What This Means for You**

1. **Higher burn rates**: All $CHEQ transactions will now see a higher base price and associated burn, helping create deflationary mechanisms
2. **More identity adoption:** DID Document changes allow Dock to begin their full identity migration over to cheqd.
